code-of-conduct-best-practices.md, before:

# Best practices for interaction at denhac


## Purpose

This document outlines best practices for behavior at denhac, complementing our existing code of conduct. It emphasizes each member's responsibility to assess their intent, action, and impact. The code of conduct establishes minimum standards for acceptable conduct, identifies unacceptable behavior, and describes the procedures for reporting such behavior to the board of directors. denhac's goal is to foster a positive environment where members and visitors engage constructively, minimizing conflicts and preventing harassment.

## Summary of Guidelines

Err on the Side of Caution: If uncertain about appropriate behavior, seek and receive informed consent in advance.

Respect Individual Boundaries: Each person communicates their own boundaries. When a reasonable boundary is set, it is your responsibility to adhere to it. While intent matters, it is not the sole factor in assessing an individual's action and impact.

Acknowledge Diverse Perspectives: Assumptions about norms can lead to misunderstandings. Be mindful of differing viewpoints, particularly when in a position of leadership, power, and/or privilege.

## Detailed Guidance

### Seeking and receiving informed consent in advance

For behaviors where consent can be obtained in advance, it is essential to do so beforehand. This applies to all interactions, not just those deemed risky, such as romantic or sexual advances.

Questions to ponder: When you say something about yourself, are you sure there's nobody there who could think it was a harmful comment about them? How would you know? 

Examples in practice: Before making a potentially sensitive joke, consider your audience and whether it may inadvertently harm them or another individual(s) nearby. A simple check-in can facilitate comfort in conversations. A small positive signal that other people feel comfortable, or a quick question that allows someone to know if they want to opt out, doesn't have to be a large ordeal. 

### Defining what is appropriate for you and setting boundaries

Boundary setting is the process of communicating specifics about how you do or don't want to be treated. Anyone can set a boundary for themselves that doesn't impact other people in a harmful way. You don't need the board of directors involved to set a boundary, but if a reasonable boundary is violated, it can be grounds for board actions around our code of conduct and anti-harassment policy.

Questions to ponder: When something bothers you, when do you tell someone directly and unambiguously, and when do you ignore it and hope for the best? When you do something that bothers someone else, how do you know it's bothered them? 

Examples in practice:

* "I don't want you to tap me on the shoulder to get my attention, please wave from a distance or say my name" is a good boundary to set if the person doesn't want to be tapped on the shoulder. 
* "I don't want you to wear the color red in the woodshop" is another example of a boundary, but it does impact people in a harmful way, so it is not reasonable to set within denhac.

### Everyone has their own perspective

denhac's membership is diverse, and communication issues can arise from assumptions of shared viewpoints. Careless actions and remarks can have unintended impacts.

Questions to ponder: What viewpoints do you have that you think are commonly held at denhac? What viewpoints do you have that you think you are in the minority at denhac?

Examples in practice: It can be respectful to check in with the people in a conversation if you realize you may have misread a situation based on their reaction. It's important to approach that conversation with genuine interest and curiosity in their perspective, rather than trying to make a point yourself. A denhac community where we all care about how other people see the world is a denhac where we can make friends and strengthen our community support network.

### Leadership, power and privilege

While denhac operates as a volunteer organization with minimal hierarchy, societal power dynamics still influence interactions. Awareness of these dynamics is crucial.

Questions to ponder: Have you ever had someone assume you were new to something when you were an expert? Or that you knew what you were doing when really you didn't? Have you ever felt singled out by this?

Examples in practice: When attempting to give unsolicited advice, consider if your advice is objectively correct (e.g., safety concern) or if it is your opinion (e.g., how you would carry out a specific task). Be mindful about giving unsolicited advice by first asking if the advice is wanted and by considering if you're the right person or the only person to give this advice.

Commit message:

Address comments from live
reduce "you" usage; link to bylaws instead of repeating; address conflicts with CoC and best practices; does not require vote on all edits

code-of-conduct-best-practices.md, after:

# Best practices for interaction at denhac


## Purpose

This document outlines best practices for behavior at denhac, complementing our existing code of conduct. It emphasizes each member's responsibility to assess their intent, action, and impact. The code of conduct establishes minimum standards for acceptable conduct, identifies unacceptable behavior, and describes the procedures for reporting such behavior to the board of directors. denhac's goal is to foster a positive environment where members and visitors engage constructively, minimizing conflicts and preventing harassment. This document does not need board vote for modification and is superseded by the Code of Conduct if the two are in conflict. 

## Summary of Guidelines

Err on the Side of Caution: If uncertain about appropriate behavior, seek and receive informed consent in advance.

Respect Individual Boundaries: Each person communicates their own boundaries. When a reasonable boundary is set, it is your responsibility to adhere to it. While intent matters, it is not the sole factor in assessing an individual's action and impact.

Acknowledge Diverse Perspectives: Assumptions about norms can lead to misunderstandings. Be mindful of differing viewpoints, particularly when in a position of leadership, power, and/or privilege.

## Detailed Guidance

### Seeking and receiving informed consent in advance

For behaviors where consent can be obtained in advance, it is essential to do so beforehand. This applies to all interactions, not just those deemed risky, such as romantic or sexual advances.

Questions to ponder: When you say something about yourself, are you sure there's nobody there who could think it was a harmful comment about them? How would you know? 

Examples in practice: Before making a potentially sensitive joke, consider your audience and whether it may inadvertently harm them or another individual(s) nearby. A simple check-in can facilitate comfort in conversations. A small positive signal that other people feel comfortable, or a quick question that allows someone to know if they want to opt out, doesn't have to be a large ordeal. 

### Defining what is appropriate for you and setting boundaries

Boundary setting is the process of communicating specifics about how you do or don't want to be treated. Anyone can set a boundary for themselves that doesn't impact other people in a harmful way. You don't need the board of directors involved to set a boundary, but if a reasonable boundary is violated, it can be grounds for board actions around our code of conduct and anti-harassment policy.

Questions to ponder: When something bothers you, when do you tell someone directly and unambiguously, and when do you ignore it and hope for the best? When you do something that bothers someone else, how do you know it's bothered them? 

Examples in practice:

* "I don't want you to tap me on the shoulder to get my attention, please wave from a distance or say my name" is a good boundary to set if the person doesn't want to be tapped on the shoulder. 
* "I don't want you to wear the color red in the woodshop" is another example of a boundary, but it does impact people in a harmful way, so it is not reasonable to set within denhac.

### Everyone has their own perspective

denhac's membership is diverse, and communication issues can arise from assumptions of shared viewpoints. Careless actions and remarks can have unintended impacts.

Questions to ponder: What viewpoints do you have that you think are commonly held at denhac? What viewpoints do you have that you think you are in the minority at denhac?

Examples in practice: It can be respectful to check in with the people in a conversation if you realize you may have misread a situation based on their reaction. It's important to approach that conversation with genuine interest and curiosity in their perspective, rather than trying to make a point yourself. A denhac community where we all care about how other people see the world is a denhac where we can make friends and strengthen our community support network.

### Leadership, power and privilege

While denhac operates as a volunteer organization with minimal hierarchy, societal power dynamics still influence interactions. Awareness of these dynamics is crucial.

Questions to ponder: Have you ever had someone assume you were new to something when you were an expert? Or that you knew what you were doing when really you didn't? Have you ever felt singled out by this?

Examples in practice: When attempting to give unsolicited advice, consider if your advice is objectively correct (e.g., safety concern) or if it is your opinion (e.g., how you would carry out a specific task). Be mindful about giving unsolicited advice by first asking if the advice is wanted and by considering if you're the right person or the only person to give this advice.
